---
author: RealNitro
comments: true
date: 2007-03-01 21:52:42+00:00
layout: post
link: http://blog.realnitro.be/2007/03/01/fosdem-2007/
slug: fosdem-2007
title: FOSDEM 2007
wordpress_id: 30
---

A quick review of the talks I attended last weekend at [FOSDEM](http://www.fosdem.org/):
**Saturday:**

* OLPC: Great, innovative machine. The talk was nice, but I think it could have been better, maybe with another speaker…

* Liberating Java: Great talk. The only ciritique I can think of is that is was quite commercial. The speaker(s) obviously were trying to sell Java (and Sun). Not that I blame them. I enjoyed the talk.

* Jabber 101: The Jabber room was packed. The devrooms at FOSDEM really are starting to get too small. Great speaker. Didn't learn a lot of new stuff.

* What's new in GStreamer: Good talk. Chatted a bit with Ikke, made him envious of not being there. :)

* GEGL: Great speaker. Interesting talk, glad I know what GEGL is now.

* Django: Didn't learn a lot, but it was interesting to hear somebody using Django professionally give his opinion about it. The devroom was packed, again.

**Sunday:**

* Plone 3.0: Nice talk.

* Drupal: Nice talk. The list of Drupal sites is quite impressive. I might give it a try some day, even though I'm not a PHP fan. (I prefer Python, and Django.)

* Elisa: Interesting project, I'm glad I got introduced to its structure, interesting questions and answers after the talk. Unfortunately the speaker wasn't very good. The Python devroom was packed. Again.

* OpenOffice - OpenXML: I had expected this talk to become a discussion about ODF and OpenXML, but it didn't, so I'm a bit disappointed about it.

* Turbocharging Linux with Mono: Great talk, I really enjoyed myself, too bad I missed the beginning. If [Miguel de Icaza](http://tirania.org/blog/) is right, 50% of all .NET apps will run on Mono within the next 4 months. Amazing.

* Secure Communications with Jabber: Once again, great speaker. I'm happy the Jabber people are thinking about protecting us from spam, eavesdropping, phishing, etc.

* Profiling Desktop Applications: the best talk of FOSDEM 2007 for me. Interesting and funny. I wish all our classes were like this. :)